---
title: "1- Introduction to Finite Fields"
---

# Lecture notes
## Euler function
**Definition 1.1 ([Euler totient function](notes/ntpy/Definitions/Algebraic Number Theory/Euler totient function.md)).** Let $a$ and $n$ be positive integers. Then the **Euler totient function** $\phi(n)$ is defined as
$$
\phi(n)\coloneqq \# \{a\leq n: \text{gcd}(a,n)=1\},
$$
or the number of integers $\leq n$ that are relatively prime to $n$.

**Theorem 1.2.** The following three statements are true:
1. $\phi(p^k) = p^k - p^{k-1}$ where $p$ is a prime number.
2. $\text{gcd}(n,m)=1$ implies $\phi(mn)=\phi(m)\phi(n)$.
3. For $d,w$ a positive integers, $$\sum_{d\mid w}\phi(d)=w.$$

_Proof._ 
1. The only numbers that are not relatively prime to $p^k$ are those which are multiples of $p$. These are precisely $\{pa:0<a<p^{k-1}\}$, where we use the observation that $p^k=p\cdot p^{k-1}$.
2. For the forward direction, suppose $\text{gcd}(n,m)=1$. If a number $a$ is relatively prime to $mn$, then it does not divide either $m$ or $n$. Conversely, if a number is relatively prime to both $m$ and $n$ then it is relatively prime to $mn$. Hence $\phi(mn)=\phi(m)\phi(n)$. For the reverse direction, suppose $\phi(mn)=\phi(m)\phi(n)$. Then $\phi$ defines a homomorphism $\mathbb{Z}_{mn}\to\mathbb{Z}_m\times\mathbb{Z}_n$. Since the order of the domain and codomain are both $mn$, and since the codomain is the domain modulo the kernel, $\text{ker}(r)=0$. Thus $\phi$ is an isomorphism. But this is only true if $m$ and $n$ are relatively prime [(thm.)](notes/ntpy/Theorems/Group Theory/When Product of Cyclic Groups is Cyclic.md). 
3. HW.

**Remark.**
Part (2) in particular makes one wonder: to what extent does $\phi(n)$ determine $n$ [(question)](notes/ntpy/Questions/To What Extent does the Euler function determine n?.md)?

## Finite fields

**Theorem 1.3.** Let $K$ be a field and $K^\ast$ be its multiplicative group. Suppose $G\subset K^\ast$ is a finite subgroup. Then $G$ is cyclic.

_Pf_ [here](notes/ntpy/Theorems/Field Theory/Finite Mult. Subgroup of Field is Cyclic.md).

**Definition 1.4 ([Characteristic of a Field](notes/ntpy/Definitions/Algebraic Number Theory/Field Theory/Characteristic of a Field.md)).** Let $K$ be any field. Consider the ring homomorphism 

\begin{gathered}
\mathbb{Z}\overset{i}{\longrightarrow}{K} \\
1\mapsto 1_K
\end{gathered}.

$\text{ker}(i)$ is an ideal of $\mathbb{Z}$, and must be principal since every ideal in $\mathbb{Z}$ is principal (has a generator). The nonnegative generator of $\text{ker}(i)$ is called the **characteristic** of $K$ and denoted $\text{char}(K)$. 

**Remark.** $i(\mathbb{Z})$ is an ideal of $K$. Note that $i(\mathbb{Z})=\mathbb{Z}/\text{ker}(i)$ is an integral domain, since every subring of a field is an integral domain [(thm.)](notes/ntpy/Theorems/Field Theory/Subring of Field is Integral Domain.md). It follows that $i(\mathbb{Z})$ is a prime ideal domain [(thm.)](notes/ntpy/Theorems/Ring Theory/Quotient of Ring is Integral Domain iff Prime Ideal.md). In $\mathbb{Z}$, these are generated by $0$ or by a prime $p$. Thus:

**Lemma.** The characteristic is either 0 or a prime number.

**Definition 1.5. ([Frobenius Map](notes/ntpy/Definitions/Algebraic Number Theory/Field Theory/Frobenius Map.md))** Suppose $K$ is a field of characteristic $p$. The **absolute Frobenius map** is the map

\begin{gathered}
\text{Fr}:K\to K \\
x\mapsto x^p
\end{gathered}.

The absolute Frobenius map is a field homomorphism.

**Remark.** Since any field homomorphism is injective [(thm.)](notes/ntpy/Theorems/Field Theory/Any Field Hom is Injective.md), if $K$ is finite then the Frobenius map defines an isomorphism $K\cong K^p$. This is a property not necessarily limited to finite fields:

**Definition ([Perfect fields](notes/ntpy/Definitions/Algebraic Number Theory/Field Theory/Perfect fields.md)).** A field of characteristic $p$ is perfect if $K^p=K$.

**Lemma.** $\mathbb{Z}_p$ is a field of characteristic $p$ if and only if $p$ is prime. It is denoted $\mathbb{F}_p$.

_Pf._ Any residue mod $p$ is invertible (HW).

**Pre-definition 1.6 ([Algebraically closed field](notes/ntpy/Definitions/Algebraic Number Theory/Field Theory/Algebraically closed field.md)).** A field $L$ is called _algebraically closed_ if and only if any polynomial in one variable with coefficients in $L$ splits to a product of factors of degree 1. In other words, every polynomial has a root in $L$.

**Theorem 1.7 ([Finite Fields of Prime Power Order](notes/ntpy/Theorems/Field Theory/Finite Fields of Prime Power Order.md))** Let $p$ be prime, and $f$ be a positive integer. Let $q=p^f$. Let $\Omega$ be an algebraically closed field with characteristic $p$. Then:
1. $x^q-x=0$ has $q$ different solutions in $\Omega$. The set of the solutions is a subfield, call it $\mathbb{F}_q$.
2. For all $p$, $\Omega$ does exist. For any field $K$ such that $|K|=q$, there exists an isomorphism $K\cong \mathbb{F}_q$, i.e. this is the only finite field of that order.
3. $\mathbb{F}_p\cong\mathbb{Z}_p$ (in one sense) and $\mathbb{F}_q \supset\mathbb{F}_p$.

# Homework
1. Prove that $\sum_{d\mid w}\phi(d) = w$.

**Lemma.** For $p$ a prime and $k$ a nonnegative integer, 
$$
\sum_{j=0}^k \phi(p^k) = p_1^k.
$$

_Pf._ Using the second part of Theorem 1.2, consider that

\begin{align}
\phi(p^0) =& 1, \\
\phi(p^1) =& p-1, \\
\phi(p^2) =& p^2 - p, \\
\vdots& \\
\phi(p^k) =& p^k - p^{k-1}.
\end{align}

Notice that the terms $1$ through $p^{k-1}$ cancel, so 
$$
\sum_{j=0}^k \phi(p^k) = p_1^k.
$$

_Pf of problem._ An arbitrary positive integer $w$ can be written in the form $p_1^{k_1}p_2^{k_2}\cdots p_n^{k_n}$ where the $p_i$ are distinct primes and the $k_i$ are integers greater than 0. 

Any divisor $d$ of $w$ is thus of the form 
$$
p_1^{j_1}p_2^{j_2}\cdots p_n^{j_n}
$$
where each $j_i$ is in the range $0\leq j_i \leq k_i$.

We can then calculate, using the lemma and the second part of Theorem 1.2:

\begin{align}
\sum_{d\mid w}\phi(d) =& \sum_{j_1=0,\dots,j_n=0}^{j_1=k_1,\dots,j_n=k_n}\phi(p_1^{j_1}p_2^{j_2}\cdots p_n^{j_n}) \\
=& \sum_{j_1=0,\dots,j_n=0}^{j_1=k_1,\dots,j_n=k_n}\phi(p_1^{j_1})\phi(p_2^{j_2}\cdots p_n^{j_n}) \\
=& p_1^{k_1}\sum_{j_2=0,\dots,j_n=0}^{j_2=k_2,\dots,j_n=k_n}\phi(p_2^{j_2}\cdots p_n^{j_n}) \\
=& \cdots \\
=& p_1^{k_1}p_2^{k_2}\cdots p_n^{k_n} = w.
\end{align}
