---
title: "ring of differential operators on convergent power series"
---

# Definition
Let $\mathcal{O}_n$ be the [ring of convergent power series](ntpy/ring of convergent power series.md) in $n$ variables, i.e. every element of $\mathcal{O}_n$ has a series expansion $$f=\sum c_\alpha x^\alpha,\quad\exists\delta>0\mid\sum|c_\alpha|\cdot\delta^{|\alpha|}<\infty.$$ 
For every $1\leq j\leq n$, we write $$\partial_j(f)=\partial f/\partial x_j$$ so that $\partial_j:f\mapsto \partial_j(f)$ is the derivation with respect $x_j$. 

Recall the notation $D(A)$ in [linear differential operators](ntpy/linear differential operators.md). Then 
- The *ring of differential operators on the local ring of convergent power series* is $$\mathcal{D}_n\coloneqq D(\mathcal{O}_n).$$ Alternatively, it is equal to the subgring of $H(\mathcal{O}_n)$ generated by $i(\mathcal{O}_n),\partial_1,\dots,\partial_n$. (Property 1)
- Every element in $\mathcal{D}_n$ can be represented uniquely as a finite sum $$P(x,\partial)=\sum p_\alpha(x)\partial^\alpha.$$(property 4)

# Maps
We define the map $j_m:H(\mathcal{O}_n)\to\text{Hom}_\mathbb{C}(\mathbf{T}_m,\mathcal{O}_n)$:
- Let $\mathbf{T}_m$ be the set of polynomials in $n$ variables of degree at most $m$. Then $\mathbf{T}_m$ is a finite-dimensional vecctor subspace of $\mathcal{O}_n$.
- For $P\in H(\mathcal{O}_n)$, the restriction to $\mathbf{T}_n$ is a $\mathbb{C}$-linear map $P:\mathbf{T}_m\to\mathcal{O}_n$.
- Varying $P$ defines a $\mathbb{C}$-linear map $H(\mathcal{O}_n)\to\text{Hom}_\mathbb{C}(\mathbf{T}_m,\mathcal{O}_n)$.

# Modules
**1** 
We may regard $\mathcal{O}_n$ as a left $\mathcal{D}_n$-module. 

# Properties
1. $D(\mathcal{O}_n)$ is equal to the subgring of $H(\mathcal{O}_n)$ generated by $i(\mathcal{O}_n),\partial_1,\dots,\partial_n$, so that we may use either of these to define $\mathcal{D}_n$. 
2. The elements $\partial_1,\dots,\partial_n$ are pairwise commuting in $\mathcal{D}_n$.
3. In $\mathcal{D}_n$, for any $f\in \mathcal{O}_n$ and any multi-index $\alpha$, $$\partial^\alpha\cdot f=\sum_{b\leq \alpha}{\alpha\choose\beta}\cdot\partial^\beta(f)\cdot\partial^{\alpha-\beta}.$$
4. Every element in $\mathcal{D}_n$ can be represented uniquely as a finite sum $$P(x,\partial)=\sum p_\alpha(x)\partial^\alpha.$$
5. For every $m\geq 0$, set $$\mathcal{D}_n(m)=\sum_{|\alpha|\leq m}\mathcal{O}_n\cdot\partial^\alpha.$$Then $\{D_n(m)\}$ is a positive filtration on $\mathcal{D}_n$.
6. The restriction $j_m:\mathcal{D}_n(m)\to\text{Hom}_\mathbb{C}(\mathbf{T}_m,\mathcal{O}_n)$ is an isomorphism.
7. Suppose $P\in H(\mathcal{O}_n)$ is such that $P(1)=0$ and $[P,x_j]=0$ for every $1\leq j\leq n$. Then $P=0$.
8. $\mathcal{D}_n(m)=D(m)$ for all $m$ (recall again notation from [linear differential operators](ntpy/linear differential operators.md)).
9. There is an isomorphism $$G\mathcal{D}_n\cong \mathcal{O}_n[\zeta_1,\dots,\zeta_n].$$
10. $\mathcal{D}_n$ is Noetherian.
11. $\mathcal{O}_n$, regarded as a $\mathcal{D}_n$-module, is simple.
12. Let $M$ be a left $\mathcal{D}_n$-module such that $\text{for}(M)$ is a finitely-generated $\mathcal{O}_n$-module. Then $M\cong\mathcal{O}_n^s$ as left $\mathcal{D}_n$-modules (i.e. $M$ is a free $\mathcal{O}_n$-module of rank $s$).
13. $\mathcal{D}_n(\mathcal{O}_n,\mathcal{O}_n)=\mathbb{C}$.
