# Definition
Let 
- $K$ be a field of characteristic 0.
- $K[X]=K[x_1,\dots,x_n]$.
- $\hat{x_i}\in \text{End}_K(K[X])$ be defined as $\hat{x_i}(f)=x_if$. (We really mean pointwise(?) multipilication of functions.)
	- We may drop that hat from notation when clear.
- $\partial_i\in\text{End}_K(K[X])$ be defined as $\partial_i(f)=\partial f/\partial x_i$. (The derivative is taken formally.)

Then
- the *n-th Weyl algebra* on $K$, denoted $A_n$ or $A_n(K)$, is the $K$-subalgebra of $\text{End}_K(K[X])$ generated by the $\hat{x_i}$ and $\partial_i$ (indices taken up to $n$).
	- This means $K$-linear combinations of monomomials of the above linear operators

## degree
- Similar to a polynomial, the *degree* of $D\in A_n$ is the largest length of the multi-index $(\alpha,\beta)$ for which $x^\alpha\partial^\beta$ appears in the canonical form of $D$ with non-zero coefficient
	- e.g. the degree of $2x_1\partial 2+x_1x_2^3\partial_1\partial_2$ is 6.

# Properties
1. $A_n$ is not commutative.
2. For $1\leq i,j\leq n$,
	1. $[\partial_i,\hat{x_j}]=\delta_{ij}$
	2. $[\partial_i,\partial_j]=[\hat{x_i},\hat{x_j}]=0$.
3. The set $$B=\{x^\alpha\partial^\beta\mid\alpha,\beta\in\mathbb{N}^n\}$$ is a basis for $A_n$ as a vector space over $K$.
	1. We utilize multi-index notation, so $x^\alpha=x_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots x_n^{\alpha_n}$.
4. The relations in (2) entirely determine $A_n$.
	1. i.e., let $K\{z_1,\dots,z_{2n}\}$ be the free $K$-algebra in $2n$ variables, and $J$ the ideal generated by $[z_{i+n},z_i]-1$ for $i=1,\dots,n$ and $[z_i,z_j]$ for $j\neq i+n$, $1\leq i,j\leq 2n$.
	2. Then $A_n\cong K\{z_1,\dots,z_{2n}\}/J$.
5. Let $m<n$. Choose $f_i\in K[X]$ for $1\leq i\leq n$ as follows: if $i\leq m$ then $f_i$ is a polynomial in the variables $x_{m+1},\dots,x_n$, otherwise $f_i=0$. Then the following is an automormorphism of $A_n$:  $$\begin{gather}\sigma(x_i)=x_i+f_i, \\ \sigma(\partial_i)=\partial_i - \sum_{k=1}^n\frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_i}\partial_k\end{gather}$$
6. The degree satisfies the following properties:
	1. $\text{deg}(D+D')\leq\text{max}\{\text{deg}(D),\text{deg}(D')\}$.
	2. $\text{deg}(DD')=\text{deg}(D)+\text{deg}(D')$.
	3. $\text{deg}([D,D'])\leq\text{deg}(D)+\text{deg}(D')-2$.
7. $A_n$ is a domain.
8. $A_n$ is simple, i.e. its only two-sided proper ideal is zero.
9. Every endomorphism of $A_n$ is injective.
10. The only invertible elements are constants
	1. every non-constant element (operator) generates a non-trivial left ideal of $A_n$.
11. (difficult) Every left ideal of $A_n$ is generated by two elements.

*Proofs*
**1**
Consider $\partial_i\hat{x_i}\in A_n$. For any $f\in K[X]$, we have $$\partial_i\hat{x_i}(f)=\partial_i(x_if)=f+x_i\cdot\partial_i(f),$$ so $$\partial_i\hat{x_i}=1+\hat{x_i}\partial_i.$$ Thus $[\partial_i,\hat{x_i}]=1$ and $A_n$ is noncommutative.

**2**
(a): We calculate
$$
\begin{align}
[\partial_i, x_j](f)=& \partial_i (x_jf) - x_j(\partial_i(f)) \\
=&\delta_{ij}f + x_j\partial_i(f)-x_j\partial_i(f) \\
=& \delta_{ij}f,
\end{align}
$$
so that $[\partial_i,x_j]=\delta_{ij}$.

**5**
We shall use the definition of $A_n$ as in (4). Define a homomorphism 
$$
\begin{gather}
\phi(z_i)=x_i+f_i \\
\phi(z_{i+n})=\partial_i-\sum_{k=1}^n\frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_i}\partial_k.
\end{gather}
$$
For $1\leq i,j\leq n$, we have $\phi([z_i,z_j])=0$. Also, 
$$\begin{align}
\phi([z_{i+n},z_j])=& [\phi(z_{i+n}),\phi(z_j)] \\
=& [\partial_i-\sum\frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_i}\partial_k,x_j+f_j]\\
=&[\partial_i,x_j+f_j]-[\sum\frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_i}\partial_k,x_j+f_j]\\
=& (\delta_{ij}+\partial_i(f_j)) - (\frac{\partial f_j}{\partial x_i}+\sum\frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_i}\frac{\partial f_j}{\partial x_k}) \\
=& \delta_{ij},
\end{align}$$
because $\sum\frac{\partial f_k}{\partial x_i}\frac{\partial f_j}{\partial x_k}=0$ since if $k\leq m$ then $\frac{\partial f_j}{\partial x_k}=0$ and if $k>m$ then $f_k=0$. Likewise,
$$
\phi([z_{i+n},z_{j+n}])=0.
$$
Thus the kernel of the homomorphism $\phi:K\{z_1,\dots,z_n\}\to A_n$ is $J$ (notation of (4)). Letting $\sigma:K\{z_1,\dots,z_n\}/J\to A_n$, we get that $\sigma$ is an automorphism.

**6**
(1) 
$D+D'$ is in canonical form already.

(2) 
Proceed by induction on $\text{deg}(D)+\text{deg}(D')$. If $\text{deg}(D)=0$ or $\text{deg}(D')=0$, then the result holds. So suppose $\text{deg}(D),\text{deg}(D')\geq 0$ and that the formulas hold whenever $\text{deg}(D)+\text{deg}(D')<k$. Pick $D,D'$ such that $\text{deg}(D)+\text{deg}(D')=k$. By part (1), WLOG we may assume $D,D'$ are monomials.

First suppose $D=\partial^\beta$ and $D'=x^\alpha$ where $|\alpha|+|\beta|=k$. Then



**7**
By Property 6b, the product of two nonzero polynomials will not have the degree of 0 (which is $-\infty$).

**9**
The kernel of an endomorphism is a two-sided ideal, hence 0, hence injective.